= Dedupe Python Library
A free python library for accurate and scaleable deduplication and entity-resolution. 

Based on Mikhail Yuryevich Bilenko's Ph. D dissertation: Learnable Similarity Functions and their Application to Record Linkage and Clustering

Current solutions break easily, don’t scale, and require significant developer time. Our solution is robust, can handle a large volume of data, and can be trained by anyone.
  
== Python Dependencies

* numpy (http://numpy.scipy.org/)
* hierarchical cluster depends upon
  * fastcluster (http://math.stanford.edu/~muellner/fastcluster.html)
  * hcluster (http://code.google.com/p/scipy-cluster/)

== Usage
  > python setup.py install
  > python examples/active_canonical_example.py
  (use 'y', 'n' and 'u' keys to flag duplicates for active learning) 

== Compiling

During setup, several c files need to be compiled. For some reason, the clang compiler fails to build correctly on OSX, so LLVM-GCC needs to be used. For more info, see issue #46[https://github.com/open-city/dedupe/issues/46]

== Example datasets

As we continue to refine this library, we have added several datasets to test against. These can all be executed from the examples/ directory. 

The following use human input to flag duplicates:

* active_canonical_example.py - 864 rows. canonical restaurant dataset from Bilenko's research 
* early_childhood.py - 3,720 rows. compilation of 9 datasets containing locations for early childhood education in Chicago
* tech_locator.py - 852 rows. compilation of 2 lists of locations of technology resources in the City of Chicago. 

The following do not use human input:

* canonical_example.py - loads in canonical restaurant test data and trains based on provided known duplicates. outputs precision and recall values

== Team

* Forest Gregg mailto:fgregg@gmail.com
* Derek Eder mailto:derek.eder@gmail.com

== Errors / Bugs

If something is not behaving intuitively, it is a bug, and should be reported.
Report it here: https://github.com/open-city/dedupe/issues


== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Send us a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2012 Forest Gregg and Derek Eder of Open City. Released under the MIT License.

See LICENSE for details https://github.com/open-city/dedupe/wiki/License
